---
layout: post
title:  "TV in 2019"
date:   2019-01-03 19:52
---

### The Good Place - Season 3
*25th-26th Jan*

tbc

### Roast Battle - Series 3 + Christmas Special
*20th Jan*

I do enjoy comedians who are friends in real life getting to indulge themselves in making fun of each other, and the Roast Battle format works best when there is clearly a deep friendship at the root of it. Also fun noting how many comedians on this series I've shared a stage with.

### Brooklyn Nine-Nine - Season 5
*13th-18th Jan*

tbc

### Brexit: The Uncivil War
*12th Jan*

tbc

### 8 Out Of 10 Cats Does Countdown - Series ?
*11th Jan- *

tbc

### Insert Name Here - Series 4
*10th Jan- *

tbc

### A Series Of Unfortunate Events - Season 3
*6th-10th Jan*

The final season in what has been, for me, an enormously effective adaptation of the books, both in content and tone. The final three episodes especially did a fantastic job of closing out the series, providing simultaneously both a sense of closure and open-ended mysteries never to be solved. I was glad to see an increased presence from Daniel Handler this season, ensuring a conclusion which didn't skew too far from the word of god. As a singular piece of entertainment, *A Series Of Unfortunate Events* is something to be treasured - a stand-alone, morally ambiguous, family-friendly show which could turn from high laughs to gloom and terror on a dime. What I wouldn't give for a beautiful boxset of this for my shelf.

### The Big Fat Quiz of Everything 2019
*4th Jan*

It's been on too long, and is too long, but passes the time well enough. As ever, the quality depends entirely on the panellists; this year's is a solid but unremarkable bunch. I do like Big Narstie, even if I have no idea who he is.

### Doctor Who: Resolution
*1st Jan*

Like most of series 11, largely disappointing and a waste of potential. Suffers from the general issues plaguing the show these days of poor pacing, lack of character focus, and overly-expository dialogue. When it was good, though, it was worth it - a lone, insane Dalek is always a strong concept, even back to series 1, and there's some good work done with it here. Unfortunately, this happens about 45 minutes into a 60 minute episode, and Jodie Whittaker doesn't get that much to do with it. Oh well. 

### The Little Drummer Girl
*29th December-4th January*

I never actually got around to *The Night Manager*, the previous high-profile Le Carre BBC One adaptation (so look forward to that turning up on this page later this year), but if it's anywhere near as good as *The Littler Drummer Girl*, I'll be amazed. With Park Chan-wook at the helm for all six episodes, it both looks and feels in some sense romantic, matched with some wonderfully 70s panning camera work. There's an incredibly strong cast, with Michael Shannon menancingly brilliant as Kurtz and Florence Pugh ricocheting from naive to bullish confidence, and it's tightly written to maintain the right levels of suspense across the series. Proper "prestige drama" stuff but with genuine substance, paying off in the dying moments of the show. 


