---
layout: post
title:  "Food in 2019"
date:   2019-01-03 19:52
---

### Breizh Café
*19th Jan*

There are some things you simply can't go to Paris and not do - see the Eiffel Tower, see a man openly taking a piss in a Metro station, and eat a crepe. For the latter, you have two options - a streetside stall manned by someone stirring the batter with one hand and louchely smoking a cigarette in the other, or somewhere proper. Hazel and I opted for the latter, going to the Briezh Cafe, a small joint apparently owned by a Franco-Japanese couple with a thing for cider, the predominant drink of choice here. Your options food-wise are simple: savoury galettes for the main, sweet crepes for dessert. In what might be a world first, I enjoyed my savoury crepe much more. I opted for a slightly modified special of sunny-side-up egg, cheese, onions cooked in cider, and chorizo (substituted from pork tripe sausages), and I was not disappointed; the galette itself had an excellent consistency, the egg was cooked to perfection, with a yolk that was malleable before eventually bursting, the onions offering a tang to the proceedings and the chorizo setting it all off. Having gone for quite a loaded main, I went minimalist on the sweet: chocolate shavings with a small knob of slightly salted butter. Add in a Belgian blonde to drink, and you've got yourself a meal.

### Berthillon
*19th Jan*

Berthillon was recommended to me as the place to go in Paris for ice cream, which - with a sweet tooth like mine - is not something I could pass up. In a break between looking round Notre Dame and climbing its towers, Hazel and I treated ourselves to quite a sugar rush. The menu is both limited in choice but broad in flavour, from classics like vanilla to the almangac and prune option. There was both peach ice cream and vine peach ice cream - need I say more? I indulged in two scoops with Chantilly cream, one being chocolate praline with orange pieces - an excellent combination of flavours, rich in both the nutty and chocolate and with sizeable pieces of orange - and one scoop of salted butter caramel - the richest ice cream I've ever eaten, and certainly my favourite of the two. Even on a day where the temperature was -1 degrees, Berthillon warmed my heart. 

### Verjus
*18th Jan*

tbc

### BOX-E
*12th Jan*

For my first proper culinary experience of the year, I went in strong with BOX-E, one of the many independent establishments in the cargo container haven of Wapping Wharf. BOX-E lives up to its name, with 14 covers and four seats for the kitchen table tasting menu. Raph and I went for the latter with the optional wine flight, and watched amazed as Elliot, BOX-E's sole chef, prepared everyone else's and our dishes before our very eyes. 

Everyone says you should avoid filling up on bread at a restaurant, but you'd be a fool not to try it at BOX-E. Home-baked bread served with whipped butter topped with seaweed salt, I could have just eaten that all evening and still have been satisfied.

We began the meal proper with heritage beetroot served with goats cheese curd, sesame seeds, and balsamic vinegar, a beautiful combination of flavours from the cream of the curd to the tang of the balsamic. This was shortly followed by the charred cabbage and smoked trout. It's a common theme of my tasting menu experiences that I find myself exclaiming "this is the best x I've ever eaten", where x is normally a pretty mundane ingredient (see: last year's Six By Nico visit wherein I ate the best peas I've ever eaten). This trip was no exception, that was far and away the best trout I've ever had. 

A beetroot risotto garnished with truffle was up next, further converting me to a fan of beetroot. In what appeared to be a move away from "starter" dishes to "main" dishes, next up was hake served with fregola (similar to cous cous, to which I am now again a convert) and a delicious salsa verde underneath. The main itself was guinea fowl served with, if memory serves, a cauliflower puree which was something else entirely. The guinea was cooked perfectly, easy to cut while still offering just a bit of resistance to chew on.

To offer us a slight palate cleanser, Elliot offered us Celeste cheese, similar in texture and flavour to Camembert, served with celery salt crackers and quince jelly made using quince from his father-in-law's own supply. Not normally a fan of Camembert, I was instantly won over by the Celeste, with the quince jelly offering a superb counterpoint to the creaminess. In a slight detour from the wine pairings, we enjoyed a shot of blood orange Moscato slush, which was delightfully refreshing.

For dessert, Elliot couldn't decide which to serve us, so between me and Raph, we shared two: a chocolate mousse with caramelised banana, and a vanilla panacotta with griottine cherries. Both were exceptional, but the panacotta was elevated by the most perfectly matched wine pairing I've ever experienced (according to my notes, a Monbazillac Chateau 2011 by Tirecul La Graviere from the south west of France).

After receiving a quick recap of what we'd enjoyed that night and asking for a list of the wines so we could pretend in the future to know what we're talking about, Raph and I thanked our hosts and made our way to Wild Beer Factory for a final drink. I wouldn't begin to hesitate to recommend the kitchen table at BOX-E - the food, drink, service, and atmosphere are all exquisite, even more so considering how affordable it is in comparison to other tasting menus available in Bristol. The menu is seasonal, and even Elliot wasn't sure what he'd be cooking in a couple of weeks, so we'll be sure to return in a few months to sample a different season at BOX-E.
