---
layout: post
title:  "Books in 2019"
date:   2019-01-03 19:52
---

### Claire North - The End Of The Day
*21st- Jan*

tbc

### Sally Rooney - Normal People
*15th-21st Jan*

It's astonishing the depth of feeling and meaning Sally Rooney demonstrates in Normal People. The depiction of the relationship between Marianne and Connell is so carefully considered in the intensity of it all, over that turbulent period of sixth form to university. It's not universal, and it's not always pretty, but the weight one can put on a relationship like that at that age is undeniable, and Rooney captures it perfectly. I wouldn't be surprised if this isn't overtaken by another book in the next 11 months.

### Albert Camus - Create Dangerously
*12th-14th Jan*

One of the Penguin Modern series, so only a short one, but three interesting essays/speeches on what it means to be an artist and to defend intelligence and rational thought.

### Jonathan Coe - Middle England
*5th-11th Jan*

An immensely readable dissection of how we ended up where we are in novel form, with a few too many characters you can see your relatives in for comfort. Towards the end of the second section, as referendum day approaches, it's like reading a slow motion car crash, panic-inducingly so. The decision to time skip not on that day, but the day of Jo Cox's assassination, is, I think, crucial. That's the day when something more vital and basic was lost than the 23rd of June. 

### Bo Burnham - Egghead: Or, You Can't Survive on Ideas Alone
*3rd-4th Jan*

Bo Burnham is one of my favourite American comedians, and it's fair to say that he really came into his own with his 2013 special *what.*, which marked the beginning of his more serious, artistic output. *Egghead* is a collection of poems published that same year, which finds him flitting between his earlier, more juvenile sensibilities and his more introspective latter day work. It's a strong collection, even if a few poems rely too heavily on an abrupt swerve in the final line. The Flirt is an early example of Burnham grappling with the need to meet and match his audience's shifting expectations of him. Also worth noting are Chance Bone's illustrations, evocative of the way Dylan Moran uses a backdrop of thematically relevant doodles to amplify the ideas without being literal representations.
